Friends, in this video we will have
a complete discussion on health insurance.  The
length of the video may be a little
long but in this video, which
health insurance policy should we take
?  Which health insurance company
is best for us?  That means, whatever such
points are made,
we will discuss all those points in this video.  Okay,
where do I start this video?
Look first of all I will show you how a
health insurance policy looks like?
Now it is possible that many people already have a
health insurance policy of someone in the family
or there may be some people
who may not have seen a health insurance policy till date, how it
looks, how
we use it, that suppose I have taken
health insurance, now
God forbid if someone has to be admitted in the hospital, then
in that case
how will he use his health insurance policy, so
these are many things.  These are
basic things.  First of all I will
show you this live.  First of all, I will
show you how a health insurance policy
looks like?  After that, I recently had a
case in a hospital and had to be
admitted.  So
how did we raise the claim for the bill that came there?  How do they raise
claims?  First I will show you all the
practical things.  Ok?  From that
you will get an idea about
what is a health insurance policy?  And what is its use
?  Okay, after that we will come back to some
technical things.  Like
you might have seen many videos.  In that,
everyone tells these things that
what is the claim settlement ratio?
What is an individual policy?  What is a family floater
?  Pre-post pre-hospitalization
expenses, post-hospitalization expenses,
network hospital, restoration benefit, no
claim bonus, all these are technical things.
Then I will explain all these technical things to
you one by one.  Well then
how do you purchase the policy at the end of the video?  Many people
understand what a health insurance policy
is?  How should it be taken?  I mean how to take it
?  In the sense, which policy is best?
How should the comparison be done?  Brother,
which health insurance policy is best for you?
Once you understand all these technical things, you will
understand which policy
is best.  But then this guy is afraid about
how to purchase the policy.  What
options are to be selected in it?  Then I will also show you
how to purchase the policy at the end of the video.  That
means, overall, if
you watch this video completely, then you will decide whether you want to
take the policy or not.  Even if you don't want to
take it, after watching this video for knowledge,
you will not need to watch any other video on health insurance.  Ok?
So first of all this is a policy.  This is my
mother's policy.  Ok?  This is the policy of ICICI.
So, if we
purchase a health insurance policy from ICICI, then ICICI has
an application named IL Tech
Care.  Install this application.  I am
not promoting ICICI.  You can
buy from HDFC, Neeva BPA
, or from anywhere.  I am just telling you this to make you
understand.  I am not
saying that we have to take ICICI policy.
To be very clear.  Ok?  Just because
I had this policy, I am
explaining the process again that there is an IL
Take Care application.  ok sir?
So when you go to IL Tech Care application,
you will get different options there whether it is a
health policy, vehicle policy, travel policy
or home policy.  Ok?  Whatever it is.  So
we had a health policy so I
went to the health section.  So this
policy will start showing here.  Ok?  So the
policy number will come here.  There are YouTube policies.
So we cannot show anyone's private personal details.  So
I blurred all these things.
Ok?  Now see what is coming valid
?  This is valid till 26.01.2026.  Ok
?  Currently it is 2025, so
this policy is valid till January 2026 next year.  Well,
how many lakhs is the policy worth?  So look
how much is written here?
This is a policy of ₹31500.  Now all these technical
things like no claim bonus.  Pre-post
hospitalization expenses.  One is that the
person explains like in the book that this is what
pre-hospitalization expense is.
Post this, there is a no claim bonus.
That is rote learning.  Isn't it
?  But now I will continue explaining the policy to you.
You will understand all these things and you will not even realize
that you have understood them.  Now
what is written on this policy as to
what is the sum insured?  Of ₹31,50,000.
What does it mean?  God forbid,
if something happens to the person who has this policy, then the
insurance company will bear all the expenses up to ₹31,500.
Ok?  In
a way, you can say that we have
purchased health insurance for this much.  Now this
purchase of ₹31,50,000 was not made.  It was
initially purchased for ₹25 lakh.
Then if we did not raise any claim for one consecutive year,
this no claim bonus was added
and our sum insured increased.  Then the next
year, if no claim was raised, then no claim
bonus was received and then it increased a little.  Then
next year no claim was raised and
gradually no claim bonus was received.
So because of this, the policy of Rs 25 lakh
increased to Rs 31,50,000.  So this is
called no claim bonus that we did
not take any claim.  God did well that I did not fall ill the whole year.  Did
not have to
go to the hospital.  So if you did not make any claim for the entire year, you got a
no claim bonus the next year.   I
understood that our company has increased our sum insured a
little.  Ok
?  The premium remained the same and the annual installment we pay remained the
same.  Just got a little no
claim bonus.  Okay, now look at one thing here,
what is written here?  4385
used.  Ok?  We have 43000 a second. Let me
erase this a little bit.  There
is too much tension.  Ok?  So what
is written here?  ₹43,385
used.  That means what was the total sum insured
?  Now it was ₹31,50,000.  Of which
we have used 43,385.  And what
is it showing here?  ₹31,6615
Left.  That means it is so big now.  That means
we were getting maximum insurance of ₹31,50,000 for the entire year.  Out
of which ₹43,000 were
used and now this much is left.  Ok?
Well, there's one more thing.  When this is completely visible, the
e-card appears below.  Ok
?  If you click on e-card, this is the complete
e-card which you have to submit to the hospital
whenever, God forbid, the patient falls
ill.  Well now it is
showing 43385 used.  Why is it showing this?
Look, recently my mother had some eye
problem.  So here is the hospital right
here in Mohali.  So there was a small surgery inside it.  There was a
problem with the catact.
So how much was his bill?  Look, the
expense was ₹43,000.  Ok?  And
besides that, this is the bill for medicines.  This
medicine came for ₹385.  So ₹43,000 and ₹385.  Ok
?  We did this on the spot, it was cashless there,
although this hospital was
in the network hospital of ICICI, but still there is a
little longer queue there, so
if you want to do it cashless, you have to wait.
So we thought that we will give whatever
money is required initially, there is no problem in paying from the pocket.
After that we will get the claim reimbursed.
Ok?  So the total bill that we
incurred there, including all the doctor's fees
etc., is just one hour of
work.  So this OPD
is covered within the OPD itself.  So whatever it is, ₹4385 was
made.  Ok?  So we
raised the claim.  One second the claim was raised
, then the claim came.  Due to which it is
showing here that ₹43,385 have been used by you.
Ok?  Okay, and this
was the entire file.  This entire file which the doctor
prepares, you have to attach it after
taking a photo of it.  That's where
I'll show you the IL Take Care application like a second.
Like this e-card is coming here.
A complete copy of your policy will be available in the e-card.
Look here, there
is another option of raise claim.  So
when you click on this raise claim, you
can also raise the claim.  Look, as soon as
I click on the option of raise claim,
then look, an interface like this appears
here, first of all it says enter the mobile number of the
person who is raising the claim, enter the email ID,
enter the address and then
click on proceed, then it will ask what is the claim for, is it for
pre-hospitalization and post-
hospitalization or is it for
hospitalization reimbursement or is it
for OPD, now look, here one more thing has to be
understood, what was our claim, will it
come under OPD,
because we went, it was the work of an eye, only a
small surgery of one or two hours is done.  There is a
rest of 15-20 minutes.  That's it.  You
can go home.  Ok?  So we
selected this and submitted the claim.  Ok?  Suppose there is a
hospitalization, when does the reimbursement come
?  Suppose he is a patient.  The patient
is admitted.  Suppose he is admitted in the hospital for three, four, five days.
During that time, he is visiting
whichever doctor he visits within three, four, five days.  Isn't it
?  Whatever medicines are being given,
whatever expenses are incurred, then
if you are taking reimbursements then
that comes under hospitalization reimbursement.
What are pre and post hospitalization expenses?  For example, suppose someone has a
heart problem.  Ok?  So it is
not like that today on the first day he goes to
see the doctor and the doctor says come and lie down.  It is
obvious that if someone has
any heart problem then initially the doctor will
tell him to take this medicine and whether he will get relief or not.  Let's
see, then he will change the medicine.
This entire process takes 15-20 days.
Now suppose he took medicine for 15-20 days or a month, the
heart problem is not getting cured, the
doctor said he will have to be admitted for a
week, then surgery or anything else will be done,
then he got cured, after that he
went home, now it is not like that, there will be surgery
after that, he will not have to take any medicine,
even after that the medicine will be given for approximately, it may be
10 days, 15 days a month or it can be for life
time also, the medicine will be given, so
what is the pre-hospitalization expense,
see, suppose he is admitted for a week, then this is
his hospitalization reimbursement, this is the
thing in between, okay, whatever expenses he incurred while
staying in the hospital for a week, the
claim that he will raise will be
raised under hospitalization reimbursement.
He can also raise a claim for all the medicines prescribed by his doctor from one month before admission to two months before.
This claim is called pre-
hospitalization expense.  I was admitted and
after admission I went home.  After that, the cost of
medicines for 3 months is
also borne by your insurance company.   That is
called post hospitalization
expense.  So when you choose the best health insurance company for yourself, then
see which company is
giving preconception for how much time.  Which company is
providing post hospitalization for how much time?
Some companies say that we will provide 30 days
of prehospitalization.  We will post only for 30 days.
Some say that we will
pay the pre-hospitalization expenses for 120 days and the
post-hospitalization
expenses for the same period.  So for us, this
company will be better which will provide pre and
post for a longer period.  So
these things happen.  Well, I explained this to you
in the middle.  Ok?  Now we come to
this.  We have to raise in OPD.  Then we will
enter the name of the hospital here.
Like in my case the name of the hospital was Suhana.
Then this pin code state city.  Then
when was the date of admission admitted?  When were you discharged
?  So it will be the same date.  Then after that
here it is being said that cashless is available during
hospitalization.  We did not
take cashless.  Then after paying the claim amount of ₹43,385, they will
proceed.  Ok?
A second after that.  Yes.  After that we will do this.
Then here is my proposal name that I am
raising and my claim account number.
Well, it's not like that, now you'll say that anyone
can do X and Z or not?  My name is
coming in the proposal name because
I have purchased my mother's policy on my behalf.
Like I have also purchased my policy.  I have done it with my
wife also.   I have done it for
my doll also.  I have done the same to
my parents also.  That means I have
purchased all the policies.  So
I am the one who takes the tax benefit also.
Whatever you get from health insurance.  Understand?  So
that's why I can put myself in the proposal name.
ok sir?  Then I will
enter my account number here.  I will re-enter the
account number here.  I will select the bank name.
After entering IFSC and all this, I will
enter my PAN number.  I will proceed.  Then
inside the payment receipt, the
hospital gives a form stating that yes,
you were admitted to us, the doctor
's signature is also there on it and below the bill.
Ok?  So it will be uploaded here.   The
cancelled cheque for which I have entered the account number here, the
cancelled cheque of the same will have to be
uploaded here.  Then the hospital
bills that I just showed you earlier, the
entire file, all of them.  Ok?
You will have to take all these photos and upload them.
Where did one second go?  Here it is.
After that, the bill for medicines will have to be
uploaded.  I will
proceed after doing all this.  Then
you will also get a message on WhatsApp that
your claim has been initiated and
your claim will be settled within 8 days.
So you will
see all this on WhatsApp as well as on its IL
Tech Care application.
This is just an example, it is the same thing with ICICI.
If you are taking Nivpa then it
also contains the same thing.  The Kar one you are taking
also has the same thing in it.  Whoever you take it from, it does
not matter whether you are taking it from ICICI only.   Whoever you take this from, the
process is the same for everyone.
Ok?  To raise a claim.  So
what have we learned so far about what a claim
policy looks like?  Right?  Then
how much sum is insured in the policy?  If some
claim is used, how much does it show?  Then it
appears that yes, this much is left.
I learned these things in the basics.  Then we learned pre-
hospitalization.  I am just doing a little recap.
And learned about post hospitalization
expenses.  Good.  Then we saw
that this policy belonged to my mother.   For
example, the
sum insured of ₹31,500 can only be used by my mother.
So we call this
individual policy.  Ok?  That only one
person has the policy.  There is another one on the
other side which we call family
floater.  Ok?  What does family floater mean
?  Like I have this policy.
This is my mother's policy which is
called individual.
My father has a similar policy of Rs 25 lakh.  I have taken this also
individually.  I have also taken
individual certificate of mother.  But I have
bought my family floater in which
I, my wife and my 4 year old daughter are there.
Ok?  So there are three of us
inside the family floater.  Like now let me
show you its screenshot so that you can see what a
family floater policy looks like?
Understand that too.  Ok?  Okay, I have one more
request.  I am
showing you all these things practically.
Making a PPT takes a lot of time and effort.
If you still find the video interesting
then please like the video and subscribe to the channel.
And if you have any other
suggestions, please let us know in the comment section.
This family floater is visible.  Now
we have a family floater
policy of Rs 50 lakh.  It is a good thing that by
God's grace I say that I may never have to make a claim.
All the premiums will go waste.
Everyone, just ask God that
all the premiums go to waste.  Never have to go to the hospital.
So the same thing happened that there was a
policy of Rs 50 lakh.  If no claim is made then
no claim bonus is added to the policy.  Then no
claim was made.  No claim bonus added.  In
this way, the current policy is running for ₹58
lakh.  It might look a little small.  Let's do a
little zoom editor
later.  So this policy of ₹58 lakh has been done
for now.  Ok?  Now look at this, the
name that came up first.  Ok?  Ankit
Maddan, as if my name came up.  Well, if I
click on e-card here below, then
see, Ankit Maddan's e-card will open here.
Ok?  Similarly, I will show you the next page.
This is a policy worth Rs 58 lakh.
Now look below, baby of Nasi Luthra i.e. my
wife's name is Nasi Luthra.  So the name of Baby of Nasi
Luthra i.e. my doll came.  So if I
click on e-card here, this e-
card of my doll will open.  Ok?
Similarly, this is the same policy of Rs 58 lakh again.
Look at the bottom, Nasi Luthra wife's name is
coming.  If I click on the e-card, this
e-card of Nasi Luthra will open.  What I
mean to say is Ankit Maddan, Ankit Maddan
's wife and Ankit Maddan's doll.  All
three are covered under a family floater
which currently has a total health insurance of ₹58 lakh.
Now, God forbid, if
anyone needs any of this money, he can
use it completely.  This is called family
floater.  What I mean to say is that instead
of taking separate policies of ₹20 lakh, everyone took a complete
policy which is obviously
cheaper.  So we call this a
family floater.  Now a question will arise from many people
that then why did you not add father and mother
in this family floater?
Look, the reason is that when you make a family floater, then the one who is the
oldest gets it,
like in my case, my age is the highest.
Ok?  So, it is obvious that there is only a
difference of one year between the age of my wife and mine, whereas there is
no difference between Gudiya's age and mine.
So the
premium for the entire family floater is
decided according to the age of the person who is the oldest.  If I had included my father
in this, it would have cost me a lot
because my father's age was
almost double mine.  So in this case, if I had
included the father, then the expenses of the entire family would have been counted as five members, let's say if I had included
father and mother as
well, then he would have counted five members,
but the expenses of the family floater of all five would have been
made according to the age of my father.  That is why it is said that
keep the father separate and if the mother wants, the father could
make the mother a family floater.  But
I still kept Father and Mother as individuals.
Ok?  Because it is old age.  God
forbid, expenses can arise at that age at any time.
Like, do you understand the meaning?  There is a thing
about health that as a person
grows older, I wanted to remain risk free.
So I kept the father and mother's accounts as
individual and that is why I
kept the family floater separate so that the
expenses do not increase.  I mean, you understand the point that
then those premiums
increase unnecessarily.  Ok?  So
this is the father-mother family floater, if you
want you can make it.  Otherwise, even if you keep father and mother as
individuals, it will be fine.  And
in the same age group, like your wife and daughter or
whoever your son or whatever your children are,
you can keep them in a family floater.
Ok?  Now let us understand a little.  Let us
understand some technical things.
Then I will show you a comparison
of the policies and then I will also demonstrate the purchase.
Ok?  First comes the claim
settlement ratio.  I will tell you quickly.  Ok?
Claim settlement ratio means
that suppose there is a company.  Ok?  A let's
suppose it is ICICI.  Suppose ICICI receives 100
claims.  Ok?  100 people raised claims
and ICICI
passed 98 of them.  So the claim settlement ratio
of ICICI became 98%.  Now, the health
insurance company which has the highest claim settlement
ratio, suppose
someone's claim settlement ratio is 99.5%, then
we will call that company the best.
Ok?  I am just
giving an example.  It is not that this is all there is to it.
Understand?  The
company with the highest claim settlement ratio is the best.
Then we have seen individual and family floaters.
Then cashless claim means
that suppose it is ICICI.
ICICI's Let's Suppose Chandigarh,
Mohali, Panchkula within Tri City as
I live here.  Ok?  So, let's say there are
500 hospitals in this, I have said 500 too much.  There are
50 hospitals with which there
is a cashless tie-up.  And it has a
big tie-up with all the hospitals near my house.  So it is a good thing for me,
then this policy will be good for me.
Why?  Because whenever I go to this company
's
network hospital,
I will not have to pay any money from my pocket.
My cashless treatment will start soon.
I just have to give them my card and
my cashless treatment will start.
So what is important for me to see is
that the best health insurance company for me
is the one which has more network hospitals
and do not look for network hospitals like
you are living in North India
and you are looking for a lot of network hospitals in Tamil Nadu.
Check
which health
insurance company covers all the Menem
Hospitals in your city.
Because for you, that is what matters,
not where you live.  Understand?  Suppose,
for example, I give you a small example.
Suppose someone lives in a normal, small town in North India, let us
suppose Haryana.
Ok?  So
what will he have to see?  Maybe it is a small
town or village, then he will see
what is near by in Haryana?  Either go to Chandigarh
or go to Delhi.  So then see
which policy in Delhi and Chandigarh
covers the maximum number of hospitals.  Why?  Because obviously, I am just
taking an example of a normal citizen of Haryana.  If
God forbid he gets a serious illness, he will either
run to Delhi or Chandigarh, so
see that depending on where you get the treatment done, which
hospital do you
think is good, what options do you have,
in which policy is it covered, then check this,
okay, then
I have told you about pre-hospitalization, post-hospitalization,
then there is a waiting period, for example, suppose
today when I am recording the video, the
date is 22 August 2025 when I am recording this video.
Ok?  Now suppose today
we think of taking a policy and God forbid,
someone
who already has some heart problem is thinking of taking it.
Even small things are fine.  Ok?
Anything related to the heart is a disease.  Ok?  Now he wants to
take this policy.  So now it is obvious that
someone has a heart problem.
Someone will take the policy today.  After 1 month, the
doctor may say that surgery will be required.
Your health insurance
company will not say that okay friend, if you get a claim of Rs 10 lakh, take it.
So, if on the day
you are taking the policy, on the day you are purchasing the policy, suppose
you
already have any disease, it could be heart,
kidney, liver disease, any disease, suppose
someone has heart disease, then your
health insurance company will say that you have a
pre-existing disease.  Ok?  Now
since it is a heart disease,
if any expense related to this disease is incurred, there will be a
waiting period on it.  Some companies will say the
waiting period is one year.  Someone will say he is 2
years old.  Someone will say he is 3 years old.  Someone
will say he is 4 years old.  Usually this is what happens.
Suppose a company says that your waiting
period is 4 years.  So if you took it today in 2025
or in 2026, 27, 28, 29, then till 2029, if
you incur any heart related expenses,
you will not get any claim.  So this is called
waiting period on pre-existing disease.
Now which health
insurance company is good for us?  Look, some
companies will say that the waiting period is only one year,
so it is good for those who have a
pre-existing disease.  Now suppose, for
example, I have no problem with God's mercy.
So which
policy should I take?  I would say that there is no
problem.  Even if there is a waiting period of 4 years, it will be fine.
Because I
know that it is giving a waiting period of 4 years, so
its premiums will be less and I do
not see any need right now, do you
understand my point?  So it is always said
that you cannot specifically say that
this insurance company is good.  This
insurance company is good.
Depending on one's needs, it is decided
which health insurance company is
better for you.  Did you understand the matter?  Well, here comes
this pre-existing disease, I have
explained it to you.  Okay, one more thing, suppose
you took the policy today.  Ok?  Any X or
Z is a person.  He took the policy today.  It is absolutely fit
and fine.  Everything is alright.
God forbid, if he faces any problem after 6 months.
Then pre-existing
diseases will not be counted in its policy.  Why?  Because when he
took the policy, he was fit and fine.
Now if it happens after that then what should we do?
After that, he will keep getting claims whenever he needs them.  Did you
understand the
matter?  Good.  Then comes the maternity
benefit.  What also happens is that today some
company says that the cover will be available after 4 years.  There is
a woman who is going to get married in 3 years.
She will say that she will take the policy.
Maternity expenses are bound to come.  So this
also happens, there is a waiting period.
Ok?  Even in maternity, then for day care
procedures, some policies say
that do not take anything even in OPD, if you go to see the
doctor, cough, cold, fever, anything, it will
also be covered.  So this is called OPD
cover.  Ok?  So if you want to take this then you can take it, if you do
n't want to take it then you can also not take it.  Ok
?  Well then restoration benefit.  This
is very important to understand.  What does restoration mean
?  Suppose someone has health insurance of ₹1 lakh.  If
this happens, then assume that
any problem has occurred.  Let us suppose that
some heart related problem has occurred.
Ok?  He had to be admitted.  The hospital
bill came to ₹7 lakh.  Ok?  Now he has come home.
Now some company will say that it is okay, now you have come home and you have
saved ₹3 lakhs per year.  Now suppose he gets
admitted again.  Suppose the expenditure is ₹5 lakh, then the
company will give ₹3 lakh.  You will have to pay
₹ lakh from your pocket.  But
some insurance companies say that we
give restoration benefit that the policy was of Rs 10 lakh.
First it cost Rs. one lakh and I came home.  ok sir.
Okay, then suppose you have a heart
related problem again and the expense is ₹5 lakh, then the
company says that you have spent ₹7 lakh, now that you are home,
we will refill it completely, that is,
now you have insurance of ₹1 lakh again,
okay, now you have an expense of ₹5 lakh, there is
no problem, the
company will give ₹5 lakh for ₹5 lakh, this is called restoration
benefit, now there are some parts in this also,
like suppose you had
sum insurance of ₹10 lakh, okay, you had health
insurance, now out of this, first 7 lakh was spent, there
is a company A and there is a company B. A company
says that it is okay, you have a heart
problem again, there is no problem with ₹5 lakh.
We restored it.  Made it 10 lakhs.
You use the entire 5 lakhs.  Now you are
left with Rs 5 lakh and when you come home, Rs
10 lakh is restored again.  This
means that your health insurance is never
ending.  Some health insurance
companies say they do provide restoration benefits.  She
says that the cover was worth Rs 10 lakh.   The
expenditure was ₹ lakh.  Ok?  Now you are home.
We did restore it.  You have made it Rs 10
lakh again.  But next time it
cost you Rs 5 lakh.  If the expenses are due to the same heart-related
disease, then
restoration benefit will not be available.  Suppose
next time you face a kidney related problem and the
expense is ₹5 lakh, then you will get restoration benefit.
So it has to be seen that
if we are getting restoration benefit, then is it
for the same disease or for different diseases.
So you should also see this.
Ok?  Good restoration benefit was achieved.
Then in room rent capping, you generally have to
select no room rent capping.  Understand
?  Because many times it happens that they
will say that the room rent is capped only up to Rs 5000.   You
cannot afford a room more expensive than this.  If you take it then it will be
yours.  So in this you
directly select no room rent capping.   It is
our wish to take whatever room we want.  Ok
?  Then there is copayment, for example, suppose
someone selects 20% copayment.  So
suppose someone has to pay a claim of ₹1 lakh,
then you will pay 20% from your pocket.  Your
insurance company will pay 80%.  So do
not select this option generally.  I selected the no claim bonus.
Ambulance cover:
Suppose there is any ambulance expense, then
that cover will be available.  And one thing is that every
company often provides free checkup once a
year.  So if you want to take it, you can
take it, otherwise you can also avoid it.
So I have just told you the basics.
Now I will make a purchase and show you, then
you will understand it a little better.
Ok?  I'm coming to Google Chrome.
I opened this policy.
Generally, I have opened the policy.
You can take it from anywhere you want.  But right
now I do
n't have a better option than this to explain.  Because here I can
compare companies.  Now suppose
I show you HDFC health insurance.
Or if I show that of NIVA then in that
I will be able to show only NIVA
or HDFC.  There was
no other platform to compare with.
I am not saying that you should take it from here.
Directly from where you want to purchase.  Do it
directly.  Have to take it directly from HDFC.
Take it directly from HDFC.  If you want to
buy lemon directly, buy it directly from there.   You will have to
come here for comparison.
Ok?  Good.  But one advantage of this is that if
you purchase online here, you
may get an extra discount of 5 or 10%.
If we purchase directly from somewhere.
Ok?  The rest is your choice, you can see
that.  I have given its link
in the description.  If you want to compare, do it
from here.  Well, as soon as you
click on it, you will come here
and here I am again clicking on the health insurance one
which is above.  Ok
?  So let me show it here as if I am
showing it by giving an example.  I
already have health insurance.  Ok
?  So I'm self-selecting here.
Ok?  I already showed you
mine.  I have it.  Ok?  I will
click on continue.  Age is saying this so I
select 30 years age here.   I will
click on continue.  If he is saying city then
I will put Chandigarh here.
Ok?  I am doing it together.
You see for yourself.  Good.  Then I
put my name here.
Right.  Then I enter my mobile number.
Oops,
I entered this mobile number.  Right?
Good.  Then he is saying that you have some
disease?  So, here I selected none of these.
Then it says Do you want to
book a free home visit?  So, you can say yes to this.  Do you know the
reason for this,
what happens many times after coming home, it is obvious that if
you do it here, you will get a
call from customer support, but I do
n't know, they are in a hurry
that this plan is like this, that plan, they do
n't have that much time, they also have their targets, but
if a consultant comes to your house, then he will easily tell you
whatever your query is, let's say two-three
plans, now you can compare them comfortably
because I have explained everything to you,
restoration benefit, these are all the technical
things, so sit comfortably and it is up to
you whether to take it or not, do not
come under pressure that brother, it is okay, the person who has come will definitely take it,
refuse, take time, do the
best comparison for yourself, then say yes here, then
you will get a good plan to compare, he will
come home, which one do you want, he has to take money from you,
okay, so I said yes, okay,
now this is revealed, now the question comes that there are so
many health insurance companies, one
second let me cut it off, there are so many
health insurance companies, okay,
what do we have to do, first of all here  We have to
come to the filters option, okay, we will
apply filters one by one, first of all the cover,
okay, cover, generally I would say if someone is
living in Delhi Mumbai then keep it for Rs 25 lakh,
like I am living in Chandigarh also, so
I have kept it for Rs 25 lakh.  But if
someone is living normally in a small city then
keep it for at least Rs 10 lakh.  5 lakhs are
not enough these days, friend.  Ok?  The rest is again in
your pocket.  The best you know is
your budget.  That's just my suggestion to just
give you.  Ok?  So I'm selecting five to nine here.
Ok?  That it should be worth at least Rs 10-1 lakh.
Ok?  Then for room rent
capping, we will select no room rent capping.
Because then later a big
issue arises that suppose I tell about the room rent
that I will take a room for up to ₹5,000.
After that, if I am unable to find a place in the hospital and have to take a policy for Rs.
10,000, then the overall
cost increases. If you understand the matter, then there will be
no room rent capping. Then
in the policy benefits, we will do all these things like whether you want
pre-hospitalization cover or post-hospitalization cover,
day care treatment or OPD, it is your wish. If you
want to take it, you can take it or even leave it. Let's take it. You should definitely get
no claim bonus. There should
also be a restoration benefit. If you
want to take a free health checkup, you can take it or even leave it.
Don't take doctor consultancy. You get
online doctor consultancy. Leave it, it is
enough. Then, on the monthly premium,
keep it as no preference, it will come automatically.
Portability We are purchasing a new plan.
Keep maternity cover no preference friend.  Ok?  I mean, take a look.  If someone is going to get
married then select two years.
Ok?  You should see that.  I am
keeping no preference for good waiting period right now.
Yes.  But suppose someone has some
disease, God forbid.  Someone has heart
problems.  He feels that I may
need surgery in the coming days.  Then
keep that one year waiting period.  Did you understand the matter?  Because
you need such policies because there he has
20-22 policies.  Then it will show you those
policies which have a waiting period of
one year.  Did you understand the matter?  So right now
I am keeping no preference.  Ok?
Well then yes, we keep the policy period for one year.  I
mean what he is saying is that you should
select for 5 years.  Pay the premium for 5 years together
in one go.  Leave it.
We will give you only one year's worth of A-A-A-Year.   There
is no need to pay for 5 years together.
So I am selecting only one year.  Meaning it is
saying that you will get 16% discount.
If you pay the premium for 5 years together.
So don't do it, friend.  We don't have any extra money.  He
is just one year old.  We will give it every
year.  There is no problem.  Ok
?  And then there is no problem with this insurer.
We will see for ourselves.  Let him do that.
These maternity covers no preference.
After doing this I apply filter.
Ok?  So now I have all these
policies.  Now let us suppose you
take some big names.  Nivaapa seems fine to me.
So let me add to compare here.
Second, let's say Star is also fine.
Let me add the star to compare it.
I am just giving one example at a time.
Suppose you understand these three companies.
HDFC Bank Ltd.  Let's add this to compare as well.
So these three companies came down.
I will click on Compare Now.  So all the
things that I told you will come
here.  So, taking the example of
HDFC, if you take a cover of ₹5 lakh per year, it is obvious that it is
quite expensive.  Ok?
So it is said that there is a saying that
this is the brand of the rich.  But it is not like that.
His services are also good.  Ok?  So
check that out, it is definitely a bit expensive.  Ok
?  So its premium is coming to ₹8135.
5 lakh per year for a cover of Rs.
Similarly, Neevapa's is coming at 6000
and Star's is coming at 598 5983.  Ok?
So that's the thing.  Below this, all the
points that I just told you, room
rent capping, restoration benefit, all these
things, copay etc., pre-hospitalization
expenses, all these things,
you can compare all these things.  And that's all
I told you.  Now I have explained all these things to
you.  You can compare easily.
Suppose you understand this plan.
Let's suppose if you
understand the plan of Nivapa then you will just
click on Customize Plan below.  If you
click on Customize Plan, what will appear here
?  Sum insured is ₹5 lakh.  You
can also increase it.  You can also do 10 lakhs.
Suppose you want to buy it for Rs 10 lakh.  The premium for 1 year is
coming to ₹7100.  You will pay this much for 2 years and this much for
3 years.
But we will pay only for one year.  Well,
all this will come.  Then there are these add ons.  If you want to
take this, take it.  If you don't want to take it, leave it.
After doing all this, normally you just have to
click on Proceed to Payment here.  Ok
?  You will click on that.  Here you
will enter the details, make the payment and you
can easily purchase the policy.  I have shown you this match as an
example.  It is not necessary that you have to
purchase only Neeb.  I mean,
you can purchase whatever you want.
Good for comparison because you can add to compare.
Whatever policies you like,
you can compare them in Add to Compare.  You
can complete your homework and keep it.  Ok?  After that, suppose
you have called an advisor to your home or you get a
call, then at least your
homework is complete.  You can write down your doubts.
And better know what?  Suppose
your situation is that
someone in the house for whom you are taking the policy may be suffering from some
disease.  Ok?  He can
explain his situation.  Suppose someone is fit and
fine and is taking the policy, then he can also say
that he does not have any problem.
Now you tell me which policy is best for me.
So I have explained everything to you so much
that now you can do your homework yourself as to
which policy to take, how to
compare, all those things.
Ok?  And you can see the rest.  Ok?   I
hope you guys found this video
informative.  The video may have become a little
long.  If you find the video even slightly
infuriating, please like the video
and subscribe to the channel.  See
you in the next video.  This
is the end of the video for now.  Thanks for listening
and thank you all.